# Logging

## Summary

Refine the guide for logging for developing Chaos Mesh.

## Motivation

<!-- Why are we doing this? What use cases does it support? What is the expected
outcome? -->

Logging in each component in Chaos Mesh is bad. Related issue:
https://github.com/chaos-mesh/chaos-mesh/issues/2149. Because of the mess on
logging, the debugging and profiling of the components are difficult.

This proposal aims to improve the logging observability of the components and
the development experience on printing logs.

After passed this proposal, I would write a developing guide for logging in the
repo of Chaos Mesh.

## Requirements

- structured logging
- leveled logging
- runtime level configure
- could logging in everywhere (every line of code)

## Detailed design

<!-- This is the bulk of the RFC. Explain the design in enough detail that:

- It is reasonably clear how the feature would be implemented.
- Corner cases are dissected by example.
- How the feature is used. -->

We are going to use [logr](https://github.com/go-logr/logr) and
[zap](https://github.com/uber-go/zap) (with
[zapr](https://github.com/go-logr/zapr) as the shim between them) to construct
the logging facilities.

[logr](https://github.com/go-logr/logr) is a library that provides a common
interface for logging, in other words, logging facade. It is designed to be used
by different logging frameworks(likes the SLF4J API in Java), with using logr,
we could switch from one logging backend to another without many changes.

[zap](https://github.com/uber-go/zap) is a high performance logging framework.
[zapr](https://github.com/go-logr/zapr) is the logr implementation using zap.

### Global Logger

Here would exists a global logger at `pkg/log`, which marked as deprecated and
only for the compatibility with the old code. Global Logger could be accessed by
`log.L()`.

The initial value of the global logger is `logr.DiscardLogger`, which means no
log would be printed anywhere. The global logger should be replaced ONLY ONCE
when the application starts.

### Logger as dependency

The suggested way to use the logger is to use it as a dependency, and make
dependency explicit.

GOOD Example:

```go
type SomeStruct struct {
  state string
  otherField string
  logger logr.Logger
}

func NewSomeStruct(state string, otherField string, logger logr.Logger) *SomeStruct {
  return &SomeStruct{
    state: state,
    otherField: otherField,
    logger: logger,
  }
}

func (it *SomeStruct) DoSomething()  {
  it.logger.Info("Doing something")
}
```

MUST NOT use the implicitly logger in the constructor.

BAD example:

```go
func NewSomeStruct(state string, otherField string) *SomeStruct {
  return &SomeStruct{
    state: state,
    otherField: otherField,
    logger: somewhere.DefaultLogger(),
  }
}
```

And logger should be a parameter of the function, not a global variable.

GOOD example:

```go
func doSomething(logger logr.Logger) {
  logger.Info("Doing something")
}
```

BAD Example:

```go
var logger = somewhere.DefaultLogger()

func doSomething()  {
  logger.Info("Doing something")
}
```

> As you could see, it is actually a closure with an extern/global state.

### Logging in Chaos Mesh Dashboard and gin

Chaos Mesh Dashboard use [gin](https://github.com/gin-gonic/gin) as thew web
framework, and there are some logging printed when requests coming in.

There are two "gin middleware" for logging, called `Logger()` and `Recovery()`,
included in the `gin.Default()` function.

So we should replace these 2 middlewares with other logger middlewares, and
thanks to community, there are already some libraries for this:
https://github.com/alron/ginlogr and https://github.com/gin-contrib/zap. We
could choose one of them.

In other codes of Chaos Mesh Dashboard, we should use logger as same as other
components.

### Logging in cli tools

For cli tools, `stdout` and `stderr` are very important for user experience, so
you could not print many logs to `stdout` as a service application. But it does
not mean that you should not print anything with logger, you could still use
logging to show the progress, or as the profiling tools.

## Practices

### Should I use the global logger?

NO. At least, avoid using it in the new code.

### Using logger as function parameter is UGLY! Is there another way?

YES. Consider to refactor the one simple function into a struct with method, and
introduce the logger as the dependency of the struct.

Or use the "Functional Options", see:
https://github.com/uber-go/guide/blob/master/style.md#functional-options.

If you are facing making a choice between making API clean and writing fewer
codes, please choose the former one.

### Should I log in library codes?

YES. When you write codes as library or write codes under `pkg/<some-package>`
which are exported, logging is not only help the development, but also help the
users to understand the logic of the library. And logging is also a important
part of observability of the library.

And using a logging facade (like logr) gives us flexibility without burdening
library users with a certain logging framework.

Only use "high level" `V(n).Info() n > 0` in the library codes, do not use
`Error()`, `V(0).Info()` and `Info()`. Because `V(0).Info()` (or not defined a
level) and `Error()` would most probably print something to `stdout`, which
would might break the design of cli tools.

### Logger name

The name of the logger should not be defined by itself, also should not be
defined in the constructor. It should be defined in the caller for the
constructor.

GOOD Example:

```go
func main(){
  val logger = initializeApplicationRootLogger()
  NewWebModule(logger.WithName("web")).StartServe()
}
```

BAD Example:

```go
func NewWebModule(logger logr.Logger) *WebModule {
  return &WebModule{
    logger: logger.WithName("web"),
  }
}
```

### Which level should I use?

TL;DR, resolving error with `Error()`; Within `Info()`, 0 is info and warning
level, 1-4 is debug level, >=5 is trace level.

We do not restrict the level of the logger, here is a list for the level we
recommend to use:

- Error() - Error should be used to indicated unexpected error, for example,
  unexpected errors returned by subroutine function calls.

- Info() - Info should be used as a human journal or diary. And it could be used
  to log expected error as warning.

- Info() hash multiple levels:
  - V(0) - This is the default level, would ALWAYS be visible to users.
    - CLI argument handling, print args before the program starts
    - Application configuration
    - Expected errors as warning message
    - Journal for application's major behavior
      - service endpoint: resolve requests
      - long-time batch-job: job start, job complete
    - Acquirement on system resources: listen on port, persistent in file, etc.
  - V(1) - Default log level for debug.
    - Expected error that repeat frequently, relates to conditions would be
      corrected, like `StatusReasonConflict` when reconciling
    - Component configuration and initialize
  - V(2) - Useful state changes and conditional branch.
    - State which is useful for debugging changed
    - Choose a branch in a conditional statement
  - V(3) - Extended information about changes
    - Logging with state updates like `err := updateState(); err == nil`
    - Logging error with more context before wrap and return it
  - V(4) - Debug level verbosity, any other behavior that changes the state
  - V(5) - Default log level for trace.
    - Progressing in a for-loop
    - Omitted things within "best effort" pattern
    - Use default value with not configured value
  - V(6) - Communication with other components
    - Logging in handler before processing/resolving request
    - RPC call with other components/services
  - V(7) - Detailed information about communication
    - Detailed payload and status of request/response within RPC

The number of level still limited by the backend logging framework, for example,
you could only create 128 level in zap.

### Relations between error and logging

You could resolve an error by log it with `Error()`, it usually means this
program could not handle this error properly, and let the user know. But if your
codes could handle this error, you should not log it with `Error()`.

You could also use debug level `Info()` to log error, with more detailed context and behaviors.

## Drawbacks

<!-- Why should we not do this? -->

## Alternatives

<!-- - Why is this design the best in the space of possible designs?
- What other designs have been considered and what is the rationale for not
  choosing them?
- What is the impact of not doing this? -->

There are several other unused solutions about logging in Chaos Mesh:

### Again, why should not use global logger

### Passing logger in context.Context

### Why zap? And why not other logger framework as logr backend?

There are still many other logging frameworks supported by logr:
https://github.com/go-logr/logr#implementations-non-exhaustive. I select zap
only because I am familiar with it, and I think the API of zap is easy to use
and has lots of configure options for features.

Please comment on it if you have any suggestions.

## Unresolved questions

<!-- What parts of the design are still to be determined? -->

logr just release its v1.x.x stable version, and brings BEARKING CHANGES with
its v0.x.x: it changes the `logr.Logger` from `interface` to `struct`, see
https://github.com/go-logr/logr/pull/42.

Some library we used in Chaos Mesh, like `controller-runtime`, has upgrade to
`logr` in v1.x.x in master branch, but not has released the stable version. The
latest version for `controller-runtime` is `0.10.3`, and `0.11.0-beta.0` has
been released at `2020-11-10`, and it still need several months to be stable.

So we have to use logr v0.4.0 for a while, and several months later, we will
upgrade to logr v1.x.x.
