# Title
Integrating awsssmchaosrunner with chaos-mesh, as part of enriching aws-chaos
## Summary

This will be a kotlin based CLI to run the awsssmchaosrunner, controller of awschaos will create a pod with that “kotlin cli image”, and send commands to inject chaos into EC2 instances

## Motivation
awsssmchaosrunner, released by asw opensource provides various functionalities to inject chaos in EC2 instance through SSM.
Integrating it with chaos-mesh would help us to add all the failure injections provided by awsssmchaosrunner in chaos-mesh.

## Detailed design
There would be two parts to it
1. The kotlin based CLI: awsssmchaosrunner being a kotlin library, we need to wrap it with a user-interface with functionalities of using SSM to inject the chaos. This user-interface would then be containerized as a docker image.
2. The controller part: The controller for the aws chaos like other chaos in chaos-mesh would be written in Golang and in turn will create a pod with kotlin CLI image to send commands to inject the chaos. 

## Drawbacks
- It will bring one big docker image for kotlin cli (about hundred MiB with JVM)
- After digging in the awsssmchaosrunner project, the core logics are several shell commands that inlined in the kotlin codes, that might be unmaintainable.


## Alternatives
We could rewrite the whole awsssmchaosrunner project into chaos-mesh one day, just like what we do like AWS EC2 stop/restart chaos. But that will take a long time to finish that, I think we will not do that at the first time.

## Unresolved questions
